i think the perspectives
of children themselves on bad parenting
have been strangely absent from a
consideration of what it means to be
a good parent and i think that youtube
and social media are really changing
this
i just heard a 13 year old girl
talking about her bad experiences
primarily with her
father here on youtube and she was as
eloquent and well spoken as you can
expect a 13 year old to be
and you know one of the things it made
me reflect on
was that there's this whole industry
of therapists and school counselors
and academic articles that are written
about this stuff
but nothing else is going to be the
voice
of that 13 year old himself or herself
speaking about what this is what it
means in their own lives
i've got to say i have i have no
sympathy
for parents whatsoever
who choose to ignore the impact on the
child
of the parents fighting with one another
you know of the father yelling at the
mother
the mother young at the father and so on
and so forth
now you know it seems like it took
2020 years for us to progress to the
point of recognizing
that the violence of parents against
their own children
is a big deal it's something we should
try to minimize eliminate that we should
really take seriously the violence of
parents against children being as close
to zero as possibly attainable right
i mean i remember i'm just old enough to
remember
the view of this in the 1980s is
incredibly different from where we're at
now
i'm not going to recapitulate that
history in this video it is really
interesting to reflect on including the
violence of teachers against children
parents
we used to have debates about this where
members of conservative religions
would stand up and defend using the whip
and using the lash and using a
stick like that there was a there were
used to be two sides to that debate and
now there's only one
that debate is over in 2020 but i feel
like the debate has not even
really begun yet about how the parents
treat each other okay
i've got to tell you for me growing up
if you guys really watch my channel you
already know this
i i endured both okay i was
beaten and mistreated by my parents
directly
and i witnessed my parents mistreating
each other for the most part screaming
at each other
arguing with each other with each other
for hours and hours and hours
on end now i'm gonna put in a caveat
here
i know this may be true for a lot of you
guys watching i mean
what percentage of people have this in
common with me i don't know it's a lot
more than 10
right a lot of people's parents
argue in front of them partly just
because they don't know any better or
they don't think about it they don't
care they don't think about the impact
on the child
but sure you know another aspect is just
poverty
just not having a place where the
parents can go to have an
argument that's not in front of their
children right
my parents worked in the same
office like at least
nine a.m to six pm every day
right it makes it even more unforgivable
from my perspective that they would come
home and scream at each other and
fight for hours and a lot of time that
was
all i saw them for that day or for
several days in a row
given that these were not people who had
separate jobs and hadn't seen each other
all week like
i understand some other parents or in
some other situations it's not the case
that we were some
poverty-stricken family in a small
apartment where there was no other way
to go another
way to talk was just sheer
selfishness childishness and of course
malice
on their part you know malice towards
one another that after having
all day talk about their issues or their
problems i mean
so i was familiar they had a series of
offices
and if some of you at home are imagining
my parents own some enormous company
with thousands of employees no
i mean i can remember what each of the
offices they had looked like they
started their business at a small wooden
desk
that was in the living room of the
childhood home i was in during
kindergarten you know so
that was one desk in one room and i
remember a couple years later in toronto
where it was
uh kind of two rooms plus a bathroom was
their office
upstairs from a coffee shop there's a
second floor you walked upstairs there's
no elevator
small building you walk upstairs they
rented a couple rooms as an office
so in case you're imagining this is some
huge corporation no they were very much
sitting in the same room at different
desks they had all day to talk to each
other
and they just had no concept
that it was their responsibility to be
civil
or decent in front of me in front of
their own children
and i mean look they didn't get
tired of screaming at each other like
i could come home from school
and well okay i'm saying this is if
they're at home when i get home from
school that would be that would be
grossly inaccurate
when they came home from work and i was
home from school
they could be fighting with each other
from the minute they got in the door
they wouldn't talk to me they'd barely
make it into me they would
cook the meal they'd cook and prepare
dinner and serve dinner
continuously fighting with each other
and they would
still be fighting with each other again
this is verbal but still really shouting
and really nasty and sometimes you know
slamming doors slamming objects this
kind of thing
you know that could keep going until
hours after i was in bed
trying to go to sleep okay and yes
i've got to say i i still had nightmares
until my last year of university
that derived from the fact that when my
mother was fighting with my father
she would sometimes storm into my
bedroom
it was just to get things out of the
closet
she whatever i was a child i didn't
really need a closet so she used the
closet in her own bedroom she came in
she'd get these and she would be
continuously
screaming at my father and maybe
stomping her feet and something like she
would be carrying on
she wasn't she wasn't screaming at me
but i was lying there in bed
trying to to get to sleep and this was a
sudden terrifying thing in the darkness
the door opens
and there's this screaming and threat
about you're afraid and like i was a
small child
right now again and in my
last year of university i can remember
talking to my girlfriend at the time and
saying you know i have these nightmares
and have only now really figured out
what they are like i can remember the
nightmares really clearly it's like
right that's that that was during my
childhood when i had that closet my mom
would storm in and do this
it was terrifying terrifying in a purely
animal sense
now i was lucky
because i never normalized this i never
took my parents as a standard of what
was normal
and decent and good and most people do
most people like the the greatest harm
this can do to you isn't that terror
isn't you know
isn't being traumatized the greatest
harm this can do to you
is that you think this is the way to
treat the people you love like you think
this is the way to treat your boyfriend
your girlfriend your husband your wife
or your own children
that you just take this as a model i say
i was i was blessed
with some kind of shrewd analytical
detachment about who my parents were i
can remember that already
before kindergarten and i can i have
members from before converting during
kinder that where i'm looking at my
parents
i think are you crazy like what's wrong
with you
you know i had some clear notion of what
normal was and that my parents weren't
it
and i really challenged them i mean my
ability to speak was very limited to
that agent i couldn't give a lecture
like this or something
but you know there was something
obstinate in me
that would not accept this as as normal
or good
or even okay all right now look
listening to that 13 year old on youtube
today
you know it made me reflect on the fact
that i never really talked about this
explicitly with my ex-wife
i never really talked about this
explicitly with melissa
but i had it i had a deep commitment
that i would never fight in front of my
daughter all right and like obviously by
fight here i don't mean like
if someone tries to rob me in the
streets and you defend yourself
i mean whatever the argument is
whatever the conflict is there are
things in life you've got a
voice you you've got to be animated and
you've got to shout you've got to let
your feelings out you got to weep
fun sure it happens all right
but if you're going to be a parent
you've got to have the self-discipline
and attachment
to go out to starbucks if you've got a
backyard go
in the backyard that somehow you got to
separate from your kids where you're not
doing this in front of your children you
know
now i'll just say too i mean i guess
this side of it i probably have talked
about more with my my ex-wife there are
all kinds of things i would never
do in front of my children i so i don't
drink alcohol at all period i have
absolutely no alcohol and no drugs in my
life
i can't imagine drinking alcohol in
front of my children most people do
you know i can't i can't imagine
watching sports on tv
in front of my children the level of
self-discipline i have
if i'm doing anything in front of my
daughter is very different from other
people i take that
incredibly seriously right um
you know like even if you just read a
book
in front of your kids you're showing
them what reading a book is like
you're showing them what being an adult
is like like if you're getting work done
after
you may have to do you know you may have
to sit down and do your taxes you're not
just doing your taxes you're doing your
taxes in front of your daughter it
becomes a demonstration
it becomes a performance it has another
significance right
and if you drink alcohol in front of
your children or if you do drugs in
front of your children
this has another significance you are a
performer on stage
for an audience of one that's going to
shape how they see you
it's going to shape how they think about
their own future it's going to shape
their behaviors it shapes their view of
what it is to be an adult it shapes
their
view of what is normal if not
what is good all right and don't
don't be surprised when you as a parent
then have to deal with the consequences
of your own
of your own actions right you know
anyway i really think that coming out of
that background with my own parents
and this this you know tremendous sense
of resentment i have
just about how childish my parents were
that they were people who never thought
about what it meant to be an adult or
what it felt meant to be a parent what
it meant to be
responsible and much less did they take
this sense of responsibility and then
hold themselves to it as a matter of
self-discipline moment by moment an hour
by hour and i know there are a lot of
hours in the day
and there are times when you're going to
be exhausted and there are times when
you can't be the best person in front of
your kid
but if so go to another room you know if
you've got to take a nap
go take a nap don't be a jerk in front
of your kid so
whatever your situation is you really
have to think about two different sides
of your life what you're doing in front
of your kid
what you're doing again as simple as
going to starbucks
simple going going to the backyard you
know um
and i've got to say you know
when i started this relationship with
melissa there was this
enormous challenge for her almost from
day one
like from very very early in the
relationship that all of a sudden
she was going to be going with me on
vacation
because of these short periods of time
the court gave me time with my daughter
to take care of my daughter to enjoy
family time
with me and my daughter and you know
it is just totally totally unacceptable
to me
and deeply hurtful to me for melissa to
say
anything insulting to me in front of my
daughter to start a fight with me
to have a dispute of any kind and look i
mean
the reality is melissa
is a normal person i mean melissa grew
up in her own
normal family i wouldn't say her family
is abnormal at all frankly
melissa and i grew up you know very much
in the same culture we both watched
sesame street on tv growing up as kids
we have in many ways
a lot of the same cultural forces shaped
us growing up
and i've met her parents i've got the
network family you know
um i'm not i'm not saying this to
vilified melissa which comes from at all
i'm actually saying this to make it
clear my own standards in this respect
are a kind of abnormal reaction
to things that might be normal in my own
family but
things that i really reject and you know
there was an incident so we only
summoned out of four times there were
four trips but there were a huge amount
of money and a huge amount of effort we
flew from china
to france to spend this time with my
daughter when the court had appointed us
time
and you know there was this incident
where like in a sense
nothing happened like objectively it was
the smallest thing
where melissa just got angry at me over
a falafel sandwich
all right like i can sit here and say to
you like like
for real for real like if melissa did
anything wrong she did something
trivial wrong or she got into a snit
over wanting me to go and get her
a falafel sandwich and i was busy
thinking of my daughter it's a time
management issue
all right i can say that all right i was
so devastated i was so
hurt that melissa would start fighting
with me that melissa would start
insulting me like you know i was you
know in front of my daughter
and i mean i didn't even really
articulate at the time but like to me it
was just
totally totally unacceptable totally
unthinkable
to to do anything like this in front of
my daughter i mean there's also a level
in which it's like i'm thinking
you know if you're going to treat me
this way over a falafel sandwich
like you know i'm the love of your life
you're the love of my life we're so in
love we're on vacation in the south of
france
you know there are some things in life
where maybe you're gonna mistreat me or
start
insulting me or start you know just
start berating me
you know you understand there could be
some situation where there's something
really
traumatic and unexpected happens in your
life but there's some
minor frustration over falafel sandwich
and this is how you're gonna treat me
in front of my daughter i mean guys look
i was gonna say you
you haven't seen me crying there were a
few there are a few youtube videos
where you guys have seen me break down
but i mean uh we were in a situation
where
you know my daughter was kind of happily
playing to one side so she didn't see it
but i was just so broken down and so
emotionally exhausted um
by you know what was really objectively
of a very very minor
you know you know incident that way with
with melissa
now i think i think we did talk about
adwords i think melissa really made the
commitment she understood like you know
if you're upset about a falafel sandwich
you're upset about anything else
there's a way to handle that as a mature
adult where you're not doing it in front
of the kid
or you know whatever i mean obviously
ideally you should not lose your temper
with someone over a falafel sandwich
under any circumstances but if you want
to lose if you want to lose your temper
over a
lava sandwich i can take it but you
can't you can't do that in front of my
daughter you can't
you can't set this kind of example you
can't put on this kind of performance in
front of my daughter
now i've got to say i think i think in
the whole relationship
there were only two incidents like that
ever where
melissa lost her temper with me and
started you know berating me or
insulting me in front of my daughter
and you know in both cases
this had a huge impact on me like this
impacted me disproportionately
way out of proportion to the
significance of what
you know melissa said or did and
in both cases you know i mean my
daughter was completely
you know in good spirits and didn't mind
even laughed about it
my daughter's reaction is quite it's
quite interesting
but you know for me in terms of the
principle of the thing
you know there's no excuse you can drink
alcohol in front of your kids and your
kids still
seem happy and you tell yourself you're
doing nothing wrong and
the kid the kid may tell you you're
doing nothing wrong with someone too
you know i think that um
you know we're moving into an era
when the same fundamentally
rational principle of allowing
absolutely zero violence
to your children has got to be extended
to other
things in life and
you know what do you do when you can't
use violence anymore right i mean this
was part of the discourse back in the
1980s
we have to reason with your children
right and that's one of the reasons
that's why a lot of parents didn't like
this shift in our society well if you
can't just
beat your kids you can't just spank your
kids you're doing something bad you have
to actually
philosophize with them and a lot of
parents don't want to do that so it's
not just about violence versus
non-violence
right it's about coercion versus
reasoning
really reasoning and you know parents
have to reason with each other
boyfriends and girlfriends husbands and
wives
have to reason with each other and i
think there is this
in my mind in my heart i think there's
this
tremendously important moral
responsibility
in setting a good example in reasoning
in front of your kids this is how adults
reason through their problems this is
how to be reasonable
even when you do have a conflict even
when there is something to fight about
that we're not going to squabble like
children we're going to conduct
ourselves
like adults and
i will be the first to admit you know
it's tiring it's effort
to to be reasonable and to reason
through
problems especially when you're dealing
with other people
who have no such inclination to be
reasonable nothing is more
pitiable and just nothing makes you feel
less appreciated than when you put in
the effort to be reasonable
for someone else who's not making that
effort back
who's being unreasonable with you who's
indulging their emotions right
but when you think about it that is the
single
most important criterion of adulthood
of all right this is about moving beyond
merely a distinction between violence
and non-violence it's about putting on
that
that burden to yourself that you know
what like
i'm going to be reasonable i'm going to
make that effort and if
i don't have the energy maybe i've got
to go in the other room and close the
door and have a nap
you know if you can't do it 12 hours a
day or 24 hours a day understand
there are human limits um
parenthood is an opportunity
to question your own immaturity to
challenge
the childish habits and assumptions and
excuses that you've been carrying with
you still
up to whatever age you are when you when
you decided to have
kids yourself i mean it really is an
opportunity to it can it can bring out
the best in people
and it can lead you to assumption it can
lead you to examine
the assumptions about adulthood that you
may have received in an unexamined way
from your own parents
and i've got to tell you on this issue
i think in the future i think
in the same way that in the 1980s there
were two sides the debate about spanking
and they there aren't two sides anymore
i mean in the same way i think we have
to progress as a society
to understanding the division between
the public and the private sphere
understanding what you you do in front
of your kids and really understanding
that no
it's just not the case that fighting
that's screaming at each other that
weeping that carrying on this way that
adults behaving like children
that is not something you can do in
front of your kids
ever you know life is full of
disappointments
life is full of scrape knees life is
full of injuries
you know what happens if you come home
and you have to tell your wife that you
got fired today
you lost your job okay that's bad you
know what's worse
traumatizing your kid for the rest of
their life because they were there in
the room when you were screaming and
weeping
about it right that's a whole separate
problem
that you've just created because you
didn't have the self-discipline
to have that conversation with your wife
at a starbucks or in the guard somewhere
anywhere else
right you couldn't have just slowed it
down and made that upon me at that time
right some people are going to come home
from work
one day and discover that their wife has
been cheating on them their wife has a
new boyfriend on the side or they're
vice versa right okay so that's bad so
that's a problem so that's a trauma in
your life
but you know what's worse now screaming
at each other
husband against wife in front of your
children and then giving that child the
trauma they carry
for the rest of their lives you know you
want to pretend
your kids don't remember i remember it
all
i'm cursed with a really accurate memory
all right i remember it all
and um you know what some people
watching this video
you know you haven't had kids yet
yourself and you're going to be
you're going to be thinking about your
own memories that way but i know i know
some of you people watch this video
you've already got kids and you've
already made this mistake
you've already had some of those fights
in front of your kids
you can kid yourself if they don't
remember
let me tell you something that impact
you've just had in your kids
you can never take it back